>> Brian Holt: All right,
we're gonna talk about custom hooks,
cuz you just hadn't had enough hooks yet.
You got to make your own now.
One thing that's kinda cool about hooks,
is they're composable.
So let's say you had, well,
let's just talk about the exact
example that we wanna.
Build here at the bottom
of my Padre Genos page,
I wanna have a pizza of the day, right?
It's gonna be the same pizza every single
day, or, sorry, the same pizza every day.
It's gonna be the same
pizza throughout a day, and
then it's gonna change the next day,
right?
I could write a component that goes
in requests the pizza of the day.
Day, renders that correctly,
blah, blah, blah.
But let's say I use the pizza of the day
in that particular piece of information
seven places in my app.
We really want people to
buy this pizza of the day.
We can write a custom hook that goes and
just encapsulates all that
logic into one thing.
So rather than saying, use state,
use effect and all these different things
kind of intertwined, we create this one
hook that says use pizza of the day, and
then it encapsulates all of the logic for
you, right?
So it becomes this like reusable,
composable hook.
That's what we're gonna try and build now.
So, let's first make our pizza
of the day component that's
going to display the information
from pizza of the day.
So create a new component
here we're gonna call
PizzaOfTheDay.jsx, import, use pizza of,
I guess we'll write that
here in just a second.
But go ahead and write it if you want to,
usePizzaOfTheDay
>> Brian Holt: From ./usePizzaOfTheDay.
>> Brian Holt: We're gonna do that same
internationalization thing that we did
earlier.
New.NumberFormat [en-US]
because we'll be formatting another
price here, style "currency".
It's so nice that we don't
have to get a library for
this that it's just
built into the browser.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, okay,
cool, and then we're just
gonna write kind of a dumb component here.
Const, PizzaOfTheDay
= an arrow function.
And then down here, just make sure
you export default PizzaOfTheDay.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
Const PizzaOfTheDay.
How many times can I
say that in one course?
The answer is probably at
least a couple times more,
= usePizzaOfTheDay, okay?
And again, the nice thing is, like,
I haven't written this yet, but
now that I've done this,
I kind of get to approach the rest of the
app as just as if it was written, right?
Which is pretty cool.
>> Brian Holt: If there's
no PizzaOfTheDay,
then return some very fancy loading state,
which I'm just gonna put in a div.
>> Brian Holt: Loading.
>> Brian Holt: And then we're just
gonna write this component here.
Pizza-of-the-day.
>> Brian Holt: We're gonna
put pizza of the Day.
>> Brian Holt: Another div.
Pizza-of-the-day-info.
>> Brian Holt: So
we're gonna make that an h3.
>> Brian Holt: That's gonna
have pizzaOfTheDay.name.
P, we're gonna have
pizzaOfTheDay.description.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and we're gonna have
pizza-of-the-day-price.
>> Brian Holt: And here we're just
gonna use, we're gonna say from, right,
meaning that it starts at this price, and
we're gonna say international.format
is gonna be the pizzaOfTheDay.sizes.s
cuz the smallest size is always
gonna be the least expensive, right?
>> Brian Holt: Div, okay, and then we just
want an image of that pizza of the day.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
className = pizza-of-the-day-image.
>> Brian Holt: Source
equals PizzaOfTheDay.image,
and alt equals PizzaOfTheDay.name,
>> Brian Holt: And that should be, good.
Now we just got to go write this, but
this will display whatever piece of
the day that we get back from the API.
Beyond that, nothing too interesting
here in terms of, components.
We've written a bunch of
this stuff before, but
let's go write our custom hook now.
So inside of your source directory,
we're gonna create
a file called usePizzaOfTheDay.js,
you can call .jsx.
I don't really care.
There's gonna be no direct HTML or
JSX rendered.
So in theory,
you could call it .js I'm lazy and
I just call everything .jsx
cuz later it might have it?
I don't know.
>> Student: It's one of those things,
again, like you can make a point for
it either way.
>> Brian Holt: Either way,
I'm just gonna roll my eyes and
say, I don't care and
do whatever you want.
>> Brian Holt: Export
const usePizzaOfTheDay.
Okay, so the nice thing is,
like, to make a custom hook,
it's just a function
that calls other hooks.
There's no wrapper for it.
There's no additional function
that you need for it.
Really is just a function that calls
other functions, and that's it.
That's the entire concept
behind a custom hook.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and we're just gonna
encapsulate use state and use effect,
like it's just gonna be a combination
of those two things, but
it's gonna be encapsulated
in just like one other hook.
PizzaOfTheDay and set PizzaOfTheDay.
>> Brian Holt: We're gonna have this
start out as null or undefined or
something like that.
Again, I would be fine with
you putting undefined here,
void zero, whatever you wanna put there.
My notes have null so
I'm gonna put that in there.
Use effect and then here we're just
gonna write our AJAX request and
I'm just gonna put my
async function in here.
It doesn't really matter
where you put it as long as
it's in the function body,
fetchPizzaOfTheDay.
Okay, const response = await
fetch/api/pizza-of-the-day.
>> Brian Holt: Man, I would have called
this like POTD if I realized how many
times I'm gonna get sick
of writing pizza the day.
Holy hell, await response.json.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then setPizzaOfTheDay
data and then fetch that.
How many times do we want this to run?
Just once.
Just once?
What do we put there?
MTE, right?
You got it.
>> Brian Holt: In theory,
if you're doing like pizza drops and
people were really pumped about it,
you wanted to like change at midnight or
something like that, but I imagine people
are not that hyped about your pizzas.
I don't know, I've waited in long
lines for pizza in Seattle, so
people do like their pizza.
>> Brian Holt: So again,
this is a custom hook.
This is a concept that people
kind of associate with react,
but it's just a function that
calls other hooks, right?
And this is like my pet peeve when
it comes to like libraries and
people like to associate these like high
mighty concepts and give them like fancy
computer science names when in
reality it's just a function.
Just start calling it a function, right?
Because it makes things seem more
unapproachable than they actually
are, right?
Nothing in here is new to you, right?
But you probably heard the ideas like,
custom hooks, this is gonna be like some
amount of formality and I need my
monocle and testing harness, right?
No, I know it's just a function.
That's it, right?
And now PizzaOfTheDay works.
>> Brian Holt: Cuz like just
mentally model this with me, right?
You have this pizza of the day function
that you're calling use this, right?
Inside of this,
this is gonna call two hooks.
Now the thing that I told you before is
like, don't put them in if statements,
don't put them in for loops or
while loops or anything like that.
But what is this actually doing, right?
Inside of it, it's just calling this hook,
then it's calling this hook and
it's calling them in the same
order no matter what, right?
It's just in another file, which is okay,
and that makes it a custom hook.
>> Brian Holt: Makes it a function,
okay, so now we have a piece of the day
component, let's go put that
in app.jsx cuz we wanna
show that to everyone all of
the time we are pushing pizza,
again, this is intro to
capitalism with Brian.
By the end of this,
you're all gonna be pizza barons.
All right, pizza the day there under
order, I think is where I put it.
Yep, pizzaOfTheDay.
There we go.
>> Brian Holt: So
let's dev service still running.
Make sure your dev
server is still running.
>> Brian Holt: Look down here and
you have pizza of the Day.
>> Brian Holt: Pretty cool, right?
>> Brian Holt: This actually does change,
so tomorrow it'll be something different.